and the sons of the prophets said to
Elijah see now the place where we dwell
with you is too small for us please let
us go to the Jordan and let every man
take a beam from there and let us make
there a place where we may dwell go
please consent to go with your servants
I will go so he went with them and when
they came to the Jordan they cut down
trees but as one was cutting down a tree
the iron axe head fell into the water
and he cried out alas master for it was
borrowed where did it fall and he showed
him the place so he cut off a stick and
threw it in there and he made the iron
float pick it up for yourself so he
reached out his hand and took it now the
king of Syria was making war against
Israel and he consulted with his servant
saying my camp will be in such and such
a place and the man of God sent to the
king of Israel beware that you do not
pass this place for the Syrians are
coming down there then the king of
Israel sent someone to the place of
which the man of God had told him thus
he warned him and he was watchful there
not just once or twice therefore the
heart of the king of Syria was greatly
troubled by this thing and he called his
servants and said to them will you not
kill me which of us is for the king of
Israel none my lord o king but Elisha
the prophet who is in Israel tells the
king of Israel the words that you speak
in your bedroom go and see where he is
that I may send and get here
surely he is in Dothan therefore he sent
horses and chariots and a great army
there and they came by night and
surrounded the city and when the servant
of the man of God arose early and went
out there was an army surrounding the
city with horses and chariots and his
servants said to him alas my master what
shall we do do not fear for those who
are with us are more than those who are
with them and Elijah pray lord I pray
open his eyes that he may see them the
Lord opened the eyes of the young man
and he saw behold the mountain was full
of horses and chariots of fire all
around Elijah so when the Syrians came
down to him
Elijah pray to the Lord strike this
people I pray with blindness and he
struck them with blindness according to
the word of Elijah Elijah said to them
this is not the way nor is this the city
follow me and I will bring you to the
man whom you seek but he led them to
Samaria so it was when they had come to
Samaria but Elijah said Lord hath opened
the eyes of these men that they may see
and the Lord opened their eyes
and they saw and there they were inside
Samaria
now when the king of Israel saw them he
said to Elisha my father shall I kill
them shall i cue them you shall not kill
them would you kill those whom you've
taken captive with your sword and your
bow set food and water before them that
they may eat and drink and go to their
master then he prepared a great feast
for them and after they ate and drank he
sent them away and they went to their
master so the bands of syrian raiders
came no more into the Land of Israel and
it happened after this that ben-hadad
king of syria gathered all his army and
went up and besieged Samaria and there
was a great famine in samaria and indeed
they besieged it until a dunk his head
was sold for 80 shekels of silver and
one-fourth of a cab of dove droppings
for five shekels of silver then as the
king of Israel was passing by on the
wall a woman cried out to him if the
Lord does not help you
where can I find help for you from the
threshing floor or from the winepress
what is troubling
this woman said to me give you something
that we may eat him today and we will
eat my son tomorrow the next day give
your son that we may eat him how it
happened when the King heard the words
of the woman that he tore his clothes
and as he passed by on the wall but
people looked and there underneath he
had sat rough on his body God do so to
me and more also if the head of elisha
the son of shaphat remains on him today
but elisha was sitting in his house and
the elders were sitting with him and the
king sent a man ahead of him but before
the messenger came to him he said to the
elders do you see how the son of a
murderer has sent someone to take away
my head
look when the messenger comes shut the
door and hold him fast at the door is
not the sound of his master's feet
behind him and while he was still
talking with them there was the
messenger coming down to him then the
king said surely this calamity is from
the Lord why should I wait for the Lord
any longer